Add documentation for Sharepoint connector (#1088)
wso2/docs-mi: en/docs/reference/connectors/sharepoint-connector/sharepoint-configuration.md

# Sharepoint Connector Reference

The following operations allow you to work with the Microsoft Graph APIs related to Sharepoint. Click an operation name to see parameter details and samples on how to use it.

## Initialize the connector

To use the Sharepoint connector, first create the connection with your configuration. When calling a Sharepoint operation, ensure the connection is referenced using the `configKey` attribute.

??? note "init"
    The `init` operation initializes the connection to Microsoft Graph API.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>name</code></td>
            <td>Unique name to identify the connection.</td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>base</code></td>

>             <td>The service root URL. The default value is `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0` .</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>The service root URL. The default value is `https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0`.</td>
```

        </tr> 
        <tr> 
            <td><code>folder</code></td> 
            <td>Empty object to indicate this item is a folder. Type: <code>string</code></td> 
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr> 
        <tr> 
            <td><code>MicrosoftGraphConflictBehavior</code></td> 
            <td>Specifies how to handle naming conflicts when creating files or folders. Accepts <code>'fail'</code> (default), <code>'replace'</code>, or <code>'rename'</code>. Type: <code>string</code></td> 
            <td>No</td> 
        </tr> 
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.createFolder configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.site_id)}</siteId>
        <parentItemId>{json-eval($.parent_id)}</parentItemId>
        <name>{json-eval($.folder_name)}</name>
        <folder>{}</folder>
        <MicrosoftGraphConflictBehavior>{json-eval($.conflict_behavior)}</MicrosoftGraphConflictBehavior>
    </sharepoint.createFolder>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "site_id": "site123",
        "parent_id": "root",
        "folder_name": "New Folder",
        "MicrosoftGraphConflictBehavior": "fail"
    }
    ```

> ??? note uploadFile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "uploadFile"
```

>     The `uploadFile` operation uploads a new file to the specified folder within a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, the newly uploaded file is available in the target location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `uploadFile` operation uploads a new file to the specified folder within a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, the newly uploaded file will be available at the target location.
```

            <th>Required</th> 
        </tr> 
        <tr>    
            <td><code>siteId</code></td> 
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the file will be uploaded. Type: <code>string</code></td> 
            <td>Yes</td> 
        </tr> 
        <tr> 
            <td><code>parentItemId</code></td> 
            <td>The ID of the parent folder where the file will be uploaded. Use <code>'root'</code> for the root directory. Type: <code>string</code></td> 
            <td>Yes</td> 
        </tr> 
        <tr> 
            <td><code>fileName</code></td> 
            <td>The name of the file to be uploaded. Type: <code>string</code></td> 
            <td>Yes</td> 
        </tr> 
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.uploadFile configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <parentItemId>{json-eval($.parentItemId)}</parentItemId>
        <fileName>{json-eval($.fileName)}</fileName>
    </sharepoint.uploadFile>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "parentItemId": "root",
        "fileName": "NewDocument.docx"
    }
    ```

> ??? note createGroup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "createGroup"
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>visibility</code></td>
            <td>Defines the visibility of the group. Acceptable values are <code>'Private'</code> or <code>'Public'</code>. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>No</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.createGroup configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <description>{json-eval($.description)}</description>
        <displayName>{json-eval($.displayName)}</displayName>
        <groupTypes>{json-eval($.groupTypes)}</groupTypes>
        <mailEnabled>{json-eval($.mailEnabled)}</mailEnabled>
        <mailNickname>{json-eval($.mailNickname)}</mailNickname>
        <securityEnabled>{json-eval($.securityEnabled)}</securityEnabled>
        <visibility>{json-eval($.visibility)}</visibility>
    </sharepoint.createGroup>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "description": "Team collaboration for Project Alpha",
        "displayName": "Project Alpha Team",
        "groupTypes": ["Unified"],
        "mailEnabled": "true",
        "mailNickname": "projectalpha",
        "securityEnabled": "false",
        "visibility": "Private"
    }
    ```

> ??? note createList

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "createList"
```

            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the site. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>properties</code></td>
            <td>Specifies the name and the properties of the new list. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.createList configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <properties>{json-eval($.listProperties)}</properties>
    </sharepoint.createList>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listProperties": {
            "displayName": "Books through MI",
            "columns": [
                {
                    "name": "BookAuthor",
                    "text": {}
                },
                {
                    "name": "PageCount",
                    "number": {}
                }
            ],
            "list": {
                "template": "genericList"
            }
        }
    }
    ```

> ??? note createListItem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "createListItem"
```

            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the list where the item will be created. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>fields</code></td>
            <td>The object containing the data for the new list item. Type: <code>object</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.createListItem configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
        <fields>{json-eval($.fields)}</fields>
    </sharepoint.createListItem>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "list456",
        "fields": {
            "BookAuthor": "Ross Geller",
            "PageCount": 567
        }
    }
    ```

> ??? note deleteDriveItem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "deleteDriveItem"
```

    The `deleteDriveItem` operation deletes the specified file or folder within a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, the item is removed from the site.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the item resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the item (file or folder) to be deleted. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.deleteDriveItem configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
    </sharepoint.deleteDriveItem>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "itemId": "item789"
    }
    ```

> ??? note deleteList

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "deleteList"
```

    The `deleteList` operation deletes the specified list within a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, the targeted list is removed from the site.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the list to be deleted. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.deleteList configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
    </sharepoint.deleteList>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "list456"
    }
    ```

> ??? note deleteListItem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "deleteListItem"
```

    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the list containing the item to be deleted. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the item (file or folder) to be deleted. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.deleteListItem configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
    </sharepoint.deleteListItem>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "list456",
        "itemId": "5"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getDriveItemById

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getDriveItemById"
```

    The `getDriveItemById` operation retrieves metadata about the specified file or folder within a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, detailed information about the drive item is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the item resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the item (file or folder) whose metadata is to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getDriveItemById configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
    </sharepoint.getDriveItemById>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "itemId": "item789"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getFolderChildren

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getFolderChildren"
```

    The `getFolderChildren` operation retrieves all items within the specified folder in a SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, a list of child items (files and subfolders) along with their metadata is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the folder resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the folder whose children are to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getFolderChildren configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
    </sharepoint.getFolderChildren>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "itemId": "folder456"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getGroupSite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getGroupSite"
```

    The `getGroupSite` operation retrieves the root SharePoint site associated with the specified Microsoft 365 Group. Upon successful execution, detailed information about the group's SharePoint site is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>groupId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the Microsoft 365 Group. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getGroupSite configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <groupId>{json-eval($.groupId)}</groupId>
    </sharepoint.getGroupSite>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "groupId": "group123"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getListById

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getListById"
```

    The `getListById` operation retrieves detailed information about a specific SharePoint list using its unique identifier (GUID). Upon successful execution, the operation returns metadata and properties of the specified list.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier (GUID) of the list to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getListById configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
    </sharepoint.getListById>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getListItemById

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getListItemById"
```

            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier (GUID) of the list containing the item to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the item (file or folder) to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getListItemById configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
    </sharepoint.getListItemById>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
        "itemId": "item789"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getListItems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getListItems"
```

    The `getListItems` operation retrieves all items within the specified SharePoint list. Upon successful execution, a collection of list items along with their metadata is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the list resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier (GUID) of the list from which items are to be retrieved. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getListItems configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
    </sharepoint.getListItems>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getLists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getLists"
```

    The `getLists` operation retrieves all lists within the specified SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, a collection of lists along with their metadata is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the lists are located. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getLists configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
    </sharepoint.getLists>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123"
    }
    ```

> ??? note getRootChildren

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "getRootChildren"
```

    The `getRootChildren` operation retrieves all items in the root directory of the drive within the specified SharePoint site. Upon successful execution, a collection of child items (files and folders) along with their metadata is returned.
    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the root drive is located. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.getRootChildren configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
    </sharepoint.getRootChildren>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123"
    }
    ```

> ??? note updateFileContent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "updateFileContent"
```

    <table>
        <tr>
            <th>Parameter name</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Required</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the SharePoint site where the folder resides. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>itemId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier of the folder to be updated. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>name</code></td>
            <td>The new name for the folder. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.updateFolder configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <itemId>{json-eval($.itemId)}</itemId>
        <name>{json-eval($.name)}</name>
    </sharepoint.updateFolder>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "itemId": "folder456",
        "name": "New Folder Name"
    }
    ```

> ??? note updateList

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "updateList"
```

            <td><code>listId</code></td>
            <td>The unique identifier (GUID) of the list to be updated. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>Yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>displayName</code></td>
            <td>The new display name you wish to assign to the list. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>No</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>description</code></td>
            <td>The new description text for the list. Type: <code>string</code></td>
            <td>No</td>
        </tr>
    </table>

    **Sample configuration**

    ```xml
    <sharepoint.updateList configKey="SHAREPOINT_CONN">
        <siteId>{json-eval($.siteId)}</siteId>
        <listId>{json-eval($.listId)}</listId>
        <displayName>{json-eval($.displayName)}</displayName>
        <description>{json-eval($.description)}</description>
    </sharepoint.updateList>
    ```
 
    **Sample request**

    ```json
    {
        "siteId": "site123",
        "listId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
        "displayName": "Updated List Name",
        "description": "This is the updated description for the list."
    }
    ```

> ??? note updateListItemFields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? note "updateListItemFields"
```
